---
layout: documentation
---

{% include base.html %}

Notes
===
The following notes should collect some tips and tricks for the development for and with the Eclipse SmartHome framework.

Maven Bundle Plugin
---

The Eclipse SmartHome framework follows the Manifest first approach and Tycho is been used to build eclipse-plugins using maven.
Sometimes it could be useful to use the maven-bundle-plugin (and so the bnd tools) to inspect a generated manifest file and compare this one with the one that is used by Tycho (e.g. to identify missing imports, etc.).
The manifest generation could be triggered by:

    mvn bundle:manifest -DniceManifest=true

The "nice manifest" option will add line breaks after every imported package.
Now you can have a look at the manifest that would be generated by the bndtool using:

    cat target/classes/META-INF/MANIFEST.MF

PaperUI development (JS/HTML)
---

The initial setup of PaperUI can be done in two ways:

1. By running the maven build.
2. Running an 'npm install' followed by 'gulp' build.

The JS/HTML files of PaperUI are packaged using the 'Gulp' plugin. There are two important gulp tasks needed for development. For normal development you need to run the following command on console:

    gulp serve --development

This will automatically inject all the needed files to index.html and will launch a browsersync instance running on http://localhost:3000/ (default). The calls to rest end-point are also proxied by this gulp task. After running this, any changes made into the files of folder 'web-src' will be available in the browser after refreshing the page.
The distribution version of PaperUI can be seen using the command:

    gulp default

This will minify the files and copy all the sources to 'web' folder. The changes can be seen at 'http://localhost:8080/' (default port for smarthome web server).